2.8 Learn edits (#3159)
astronomer/docs: learn/airflow-object-storage-tutorial.md

---

> title: "Use Airflow Object Storage to interact with cloud storage in an ML pipeline"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Use Airflow object storage to interact with cloud storage in an ML pipeline"
```
Since object storage isn't a unique entity or concept, we shouldn't capitalize it.

> sidebar_label: "Use the Airflow Object Storage"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sidebar_label: "Object storage"
```

> description: "Learn how to use Airflow Object Storage."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Learn how to use Airflow object storage."
```

id: airflow-object-storage-tutorial
---

import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock';
import object_storage_use_case from '!!raw-loader!../code-samples/dags/airflow-object-storage-tutorial/object_storage_use_case.py';

> Airflow 2.8 introduced the [Airflow Object Storage](http://apache-airflow-docs.s3-website.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/docs/apache-airflow/stable/core-concepts/objectstorage.html#object-storage) feature to simplify interaction with different remote and local object storage systems from within your DAGs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Airflow 2.8 introduced the [Airflow Object Storage](http://apache-airflow-docs.s3-website.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/docs/apache-airflow/stable/core-concepts/objectstorage.html#object-storage) feature to simplify how you interact with remote and local object storage systems.
```

> This tutorial walks you through how to use the Object Storage to interact with files in cloud and local storage in a simple machine learning pipeline training a classifier to predict whether a sentence is more likely to have been said by Captain Kirk or Captain Picard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial demonstrates the object storage feature using a simple machine learning pipeline. The pipeline trains a classifier to predict whether a sentence is more likely to have been said by Star Trek's Captain Kirk or Captain Picard.
```

:::caution

> The Airflow Object Storage is currently considered experimental and might be subject to breaking changes in future releases. For more information see [AIP-58](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=263430565).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Object storage is currently considered experimental and might be subject to breaking changes in future releases. For more information see [AIP-58](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=263430565).
```

:::

## Why use Airflow Object Storage?

> Object stores are ubiquitous in modern data pipelines. They are used to store raw data, model-artifacts, image, video, text and audio files, and more. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Object stores are ubiquitous in modern data pipelines. They are used to store raw data, model-artifacts, image, video, text and audio files, and more. Because each object storage system has different file naming and path conventions, it can be challenging to work with data across many different objet stores.
```

> The Airflow Object Storage feature allows you to: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Airflow's object storage features allow you to: 
```

> - Interact with object stores in a simple and consistent way from within your DAGs with an abstraction implemented as a [Path API](https://docs.python.org/3/library/pathlib.html). Note that some limitations apply due to the nature of different remote object storage systems, see [Cloud Object Stores are not real file systems](http://apache-airflow-docs.s3-website.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/docs/apache-airflow/stable/core-concepts/objectstorage.html#cloud-object-stores-are-not-real-file-systems).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Abstract your interactions with object stores using a [Path API](https://docs.python.org/3/library/pathlib.html). Note that some limitations apply due to the nature of different remote object storage systems. See [Cloud Object Stores are not real file systems](http://apache-airflow-docs.s3-website.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/docs/apache-airflow/stable/core-concepts/objectstorage.html#cloud-object-stores-are-not-real-file-systems).
```

> - Easily switch between different object storage systems without having to change your DAG code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Switch between different object storage systems without having to change your DAG code.
```

> - Transfer files between different object storage systems without having to reply on XToYTransferOperator operators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Transfer files between different object storage systems without needing to use XToYTransferOperator operators.
```

> - Transfer large files efficiently, as the Airflow Object Storage feature uses [shutil.copyfileobj()](https://docs.python.org/3/library/shutil.html#shutil.copyfileobj) to stream files in chunks instead of loading them into memory in their entirety.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Transfer large files efficiently. For object storage, Airflow uses [shutil.copyfileobj()](https://docs.python.org/3/library/shutil.html#shutil.copyfileobj) to stream files in chunks instead of loading them into memory in their entirety.
```

## Time to complete

This tutorial takes approximately 20 minutes to complete.

## Assumed knowledge

To get the most out of this tutorial, make sure you have an understanding of:

- Airflow fundamentals, such as writing DAGs and defining tasks. See [Get started with Apache Airflow](get-started-with-airflow.md).
- Task Flow API. See [Introduction to the TaskFlow API and Airflow decorators](airflow-decorators.md).

> - The Basics of [pathlib](https://docs.python.org/3/library/pathlib.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The basics of [pathlib](https://docs.python.org/3/library/pathlib.html).
```

## Prerequisites

- The [Astro CLI](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/get-started).
- A object storage system to interact with. This tutorial uses [Amazon S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/), but you can use [Google Cloud Storage](https://cloud.google.com/storage), [Azure Blob Storage](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/storage/blobs/) or local file storage as well.

## Step 1: Configure your Astro project

1. Create a new Astro project:

    ```sh
    $ mkdir astro-object-storage-tutorial && cd astro-object-storage-tutorial
    $ astro dev init
    ```

> 2. Add the following lines to your `requirements.txt` file to install the Amazon provider with the `s3fs` extension, as well as the [scikit-learn](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/) package. If you are using Google Cloud Storage or Azure Blob Storage, install the [Google provider](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/apache-airflow-providers-google/versions/latest) or [Azure provider](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/apache-airflow-providers-microsoft-azure/versions/latest) instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Add the following lines to your Astro project `requirements.txt` file to install the Amazon provider with the `s3fs` extension, as well as the [scikit-learn](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/) package. If you are using Google Cloud Storage or Azure Blob Storage, install the [Google provider](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/apache-airflow-providers-google/versions/latest) or [Azure provider](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/apache-airflow-providers-microsoft-azure/versions/latest) instead.
```

    ```text
    AIRFLOW_CONN_MY_AWS_CONN='{
        "conn_type": "aws",
        "login": "<your-aws-access-key-id>",
        "password": <your-aws-secret-access-key>",
    }'
    ```

## Step 2: Prepare your data

In this example pipeline you will train a classifier to predict whether a sentence is more likely to have been said by Captain Kirk or Captain Picard. The training set consists of 3 quotes from each captain stored in `.txt` files. 

1. Create a new bucket in your S3 account called `astro-object-storage-tutorial`.
2. In the bucket, create a folder called `ingest` with two subfolders `kirk_quotes` and `picard_quotes`.
3. Upload the files from Astronomer's [GitHub repository](https://github.com/astronomer/2-8-example-dags/tree/main/include/ingestion_data_object_store_use_case) into the respective folders.

## Step 3: Create your DAG

1. In your `dags` folder, create a file called `object_storage_use_case.py`.

2. Copy the following code into the file.

    <CodeBlock language="python">{object_storage_use_case}</CodeBlock>

>     This DAG uses three different Object Storage locations, which can be aimed at different object storage systems simply by changing the `OBJECT_STORAGE_X`, `PATH_X` and `CONN_ID_X` for each location.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This DAG uses three different object storage locations, which can be aimed at different object storage systems by changing the `OBJECT_STORAGE_X`, `PATH_X` and `CONN_ID_X` for each location.
```

    - `base_path_ingest`: The base path for the ingestion data. This is the path to the training quotes you uploaded in [Step 2](#step-2-prepare-your-data). 
    - `base_path_train`: The base path for the training data, this is the location from which data for training the model will be read.
    - `base_path_archive`: The base path for the archive location where data that has been previously been used for training will be moved to.

>     The DAG consists of eight tasks to make a simple MLOps pipeline.

Reviewer 2: Can we add a little more detail in these descriptions about when and how the ObjectStoragePath is being used and what value it adds (i.e. why we're using it as opposed to some other method)? Doesn't need to be a ton of text, just a little more context.

    - The `list_files_ingest` task takes the `base_path_ingest` as an input and iterates through the subfolders `kirk_quotes` and `picard_quotes` to return all files in the folders as individual `ObjectStoragePath` objects.

>     - The `copy_files_ingest_to_train` task is [dynamically mapped](dynamic-tasks.md) over the list of files returned by the `list_files_ingest` task. It takes the `base_path_train` as an input and copies the files from the `base_path_ingest` to the `base_path_train` location, providing an example of using Object Storage to transfer files between different object storage systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - The `copy_files_ingest_to_train` task is [dynamically mapped](dynamic-tasks.md) over the list of files returned by the `list_files_ingest` task. It takes the `base_path_train` as an input and copies the files from the `base_path_ingest` to the `base_path_train` location, providing an example of transferring files between different object storage systems.
```

    - The `use_model` task deserializes the trained model to run a prediction on a user-provided quote, determining whether the quote is more likely to have been said by Captain Kirk or Captain Picard. The prediction is printed to the logs.
    - The `copy_files_train_to_archive` task copies the files from the `base_path_train` to the `base_path_archive` location analogous to the `copy_files_ingest_to_train` task.
    - The `empty_train` task deletes all files from the `base_path_train` location.

    ![Screenshot of the Airflow UI showing the successful completion of the `object_storage_use_case` DAG in the Grid view with the Graph tab selected.](/img/tutorials/airflow-object-storage-tutorial_dag.png)

## Step 4: Run your DAG

1. Run `astro dev start` in your Astro project to start Airflow, then open the Airflow UI at `localhost:8080`.

2. In the Airflow UI, run the `object_storage_use_case` DAG by clicking the play button. Provide any quote you like to the `my_quote` [Airflow param](airflow-params.md).

> 3. After the DAG run completed, go to the task logs of the `use_model` task to see the prediction made by the model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. After the DAG run completes, go to the task logs of the `use_model` task to see the prediction made by the model.
```

> ```text
> [2023-12-11, 00:19:22 UTC] {logging_mixin.py:188} INFO - The quote: 'Time and space are creations of the human mind.'
> [2023-12-11, 00:19:22 UTC] {logging_mixin.py:188} INFO - sounds like it could have been said by Picard
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
    ```text
    [2023-12-11, 00:19:22 UTC] {logging_mixin.py:188} INFO - The quote: 'Time and space are creations of the human mind.'
    [2023-12-11, 00:19:22 UTC] {logging_mixin.py:188} INFO - sounds like it could have been said by Picard
    ```
````

## Conclusion

> Congratulations! You got your first experience using the Airflow Object Storage to interact with files in different locations. To learn more about other methods and capabilities of this feature see the [OSS Airflow documentation](http://apache-airflow-docs.s3-website.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/docs/apache-airflow/stable/core-concepts/objectstorage.html#basic-use).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Congratulations! You just used Airflow's object storage features to interact with files in different locations. To learn more about other methods and capabilities of this feature, see the [OSS Airflow documentation](http://apache-airflow-docs.s3-website.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/docs/apache-airflow/stable/core-concepts/objectstorage.html#basic-use).
```
